{\rtf1\ansi\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0 Consolas;}{\f1 Arial;}}
\fs24
\b Vulkan2DRenderer Function Reference\b0\par
\par
This is a Word-compatible summary of the engine function reference. The full detailed version is in Docs/EngineFunctionReference.md.\par
\par
\b What This Covers\b0\par
- Core application loop functions\par
- Input and windowing functions\par
- Scene, entity, transform, collision, animation, tile map, and serialization functions\par
- Object and actor wrapper functions\par
- Renderer and Vulkan helper functions\par
- Editor panel and controller functions\par
- Sandbox application functions\par
\par
\b Key Files\b0\par
- Docs/EngineFunctionReference.md: full categorized function-by-function breakdown\par
- Docs/EngineDocumentation.md: engine overview, workflows, and examples\par
- Docs/HeaderReference.md: header-by-header reference\par
\par
\b Core\b0\par
Application::Init initializes the window, renderer, and ImGui, then calls OnInit.\par
Application::Run executes the main loop, updates editor state, snapshots input, and renders each frame.\par
Application::Shutdown tears down ImGui and Vulkan resources safely.\par
Application::EnterPlayMode saves a scene snapshot and starts Scene::BeginPlay.\par
Application::ExitPlayMode ends play mode and reloads the snapshot.\par
InputState::BeginFrame samples keyboard, mouse, and viewport routing state.\par
InputState key and mouse query functions expose held, pressed, and released states.\par
\par
\b Scene And Gameplay\b0\par
Scene::CreateEntity creates a game object with the default engine-managed components.\par
Scene::Place and Scene::Spawn create typed objects from Actor or Object wrappers.\par
Scene::Update advances sprite animation and destroys pending objects.\par
Scene::Render renders all visible active objects.\par
Scene::SaveToFile and Scene::LoadFromFile serialize the scene to JSON.\par
Scene transform functions manage local and world transform state.\par
Scene collision functions build AABBs, test overlaps, resolve movement, and render debug bounds.\par
Entity functions expose name, active state, parent-child hierarchy, transforms, sprite state, animation state, tile map editing, collider editing, and custom components.\par
\par
\b Rendering\b0\par
VulkanRenderer::Init creates persistent Vulkan state, swapchain resources, batching resources, and fallback textures.\par
VulkanRenderer::DrawSprite submits sprite data to the quad batcher.\par
VulkanRenderer::BeginFrame and EndFrame bracket scene submission and presentation.\par
VulkanRenderer::EnsureSceneViewportTarget manages the offscreen editor viewport render target.\par
VulkanTexture, VulkanVertexBuffer, VulkanIndexBuffer, VulkanUniformBuffer, VulkanQuadInstanceBuffer, VulkanSwapChain, VulkanRenderPass, VulkanFramebuffer, VulkanPipeline, VulkanCommandBuffer, VulkanSync, and VulkanViewportRenderTarget provide the low-level Vulkan resource functions.\par
\par
\b Editor\b0\par
EditorLayer::Draw renders the dockspace, top bar, scene viewport, inspector, tile map editor, tileset editor, and overlays.\par
EditorSceneController::Update handles camera movement, selection, save and reload shortcuts, and debug toggles.\par
SceneEditorPanel draws the hierarchy and inspector, including built-in transform, sprite, animation, collider, and reflected component editing.\par
TileMapEditorPanel and TileMapEditorController manage atlas selection, painting, fill, erasing, layer edits, hovered tiles, and undo or redo.\par
TileSetEditorPanel manages tileset texture paths, atlas grid setup, and per-tile solid flags.\par
\par
\b Sandbox\b0\par
SandboxApp::OnInit builds the sample scene.\par
SandboxApp::OnUpdate drives editor controllers, runtime input, and scene updates while playing.\par
SandboxApp::OnRender delegates rendering through EditorSceneController.\par
\par
\b Recommendation\b0\par
Open Docs/EngineFunctionReference.md when you want the full per-function breakdown. Open this RTF in Microsoft Word if you want a Word-native deliverable to edit, annotate, or export as DOCX.\par
}
